#summary Requirements for assuring the code quality.
#labels Phase-Implementation

= Introduction =

Suppose you got a positive code review results.

To merge some changes you've done with main trunk you must be sure that your code satisfies the following list of criteria

 # Of course, it should be compilable with both Makefile and VCPROJ. See FuncSimBuild.
 # Unit tests binaries must pass (exit without messages and with exit code zero) (see UnitTests)
 # Funcsim full-run on `simple_test.bin` should finish without errors.
 # Code guidelines should be satisfied. See CodingStyle.

*NOTE* Currently there is no automated enforcement of the rules before a commit, therefore it's a responsibility of every comitter to stick to them. Anyway, if you would introduce any problems the next automated regular testing will reveal them and that wouldn't look good!

= Automated check = 

To test your branch you can use the same test suite that is used for regular testing. It is located at `<svn_root>/tests/mdsp_test_suite.sh`.

== Limitations ==

Currently only Makefile (Windows and Linux) build can be tested with this script. Windows/MS VS support is in the progress of developement.

== Prerequisites ==

You must have the following things installed on your computer:

 * Windows - you should have CygWin or MinGW installed.
 * Linux - if you can fetch and build code manually then you will be able to run the script.

== How to run ==

 # To test main trunk, run
{{{
bash mdsp_test_suite.sh test
}}}
 # To test a branch, run
{{{
bash mdsp_test_suite.sh branch <branch-name>
}}}
 # To test your working copy, run 
{{{
bash mdsp_test_suite.sh this
}}}
 Notes:
  # This variant is designed to be run from `<svn_root>/tests` directory. In other case it won't find your sources.
  # This variant cleans your Release build directories and rebuilds the code.
  