#summary Using Doxygen for generating a documentation of source code.
#labels Phase-Deploy

= Introduction =

Doxygen is a documentation generator for the programming languages C, C++, C#, Fortran, Java etc. Doxygen can create documentation as html, Latex,man ,rtf and XML format. I think that html format is more useful and convenient.


= How to install =

Doxygen runs on most Unix-like system in command line. But there are versions for Linux and Windows. Also there is GUI for user-friendly creating config file.
== Linux ==
Simplest way for installation Doxygen on Linux is use apt-get, aptitude etc. Example for Ubuntu:
{{{
sudo apt-get install doxygen
 }}}
And for installing GUI:
{{{
sudo apt-get install doxywizard
}}}
Also you can compiled Doxygen from sources or install from binary:
    http://www.stack.nl/~dimitri/doxygen/download.html#latestsrc

== Windows ==
To install on Windows you need to download self-extracting archive from here:
  http://ftp.stack.nl/pub/users/dimitri/doxygen-1.7.2-setup.exe
or  
  http://sourceforge.net/downloads/doxygen/
= How to use =
Doxygen uses config file to work, so there are two ways to make it.
First of them is to create template:
{{{
doxygen -g <name of config file>
}}}
Then you need to edit this file. Information about configuration file and tags you can find here:
http://www.stack.nl/~dimitri/doxygen/config.html

Or you can use Doxygen GUI - Doxywizard. This is quite simple.

After the creation config file:
{{{
doxygen <name of config file>
}}}
Result will be in directory you wrote in config file:
{{{
OUTPUT_DIRECTORY       = C:/Users/User/Documents/Mdsp/doxygen
}}}
== Links ==
For more information about Doxygen you can visit

Wiki:
  http://ru.wikipedia.org/wiki/Doxygen

  http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Doxygen
Official site:
  http://www.stack.nl/~dimitri/doxygen/
Russian translate of official site:
  http://www.doxygenorg.ru/