#summary Some knowlegde on SVN branches and Google Code specifics of it
#labels Phase-Requirements

= Introduction =

The branches are used to separate your version of code, which is allowed to have some errors and even to not build, from the main trunk that should be as stable as possible. The approximate work procedure is  as follows:
 # You create a branch fro a task you are going to work on;
 # You modify the code in branch, build it, test it;
 # You commit the branch;
 # You request a review from a mentor;
 # The mentor looks through the code in branch, makes some comments, approves it;
 # After an approve you merge the branch with main trunk.

Look through the below description for details. There are some commands that can be run from a command line (_if you installed a command line version of `svn`_), but you can easily find the way to do it from TortoiseSVN.

= To create a branch and switch to it =

From the root of your SVN working copy:
{{{
svn copy . https://mdsp.googlecode.com/svn/branches/new-branch-name -m 'reason of creation'

svn switch https://mdsp.googlecode.com/svn/branches/new-branch-name

}}}


= To request the review =

To be done.

 * Go to http://
 * Press "ask for review" button
 * wait the  mentor to make a review.
 * read the results - if your code is accepted then proceed to merging your changes into main trunk.

= To merge the branch to main trunk = 

 # Get a working copy (WC) of *main trunk*, not a branch!
   `svn checkout https://mdsp.googlecode.com/svn/trunk`
 # Remember the number of revision when your branch was created. Suppose it is *250*.
 # Inside the trunk WC run the command:
   {{{
svn merge -r 250:HEAD https://mdsp.googlecode.com/svn/branches/new-branch-name
}}}
   {{{250:HEAD}}} is a range of revisions since the moment of branch creation to its latest version.
 # Now your WC of trunk has merged version of the branch and the changes from trunk. If you have some messages of conflicts, resolve them (_how? this is another story..._), if everything is OK, proceed to the next step.
 # Commit the changes to the main trunk:
  `svn commit -m 'Merged with new-branch-name'`
 # Congratulations! Now your work is available to the whole team. Hope you've done it well.


= Notes = 

More details at
http://svnbook.red-bean.com/en/1.0/re16.html

Or just Google it.